- Common Issues

If you require support, you can join our discord server by pressing the discord icon in the title bar of the SMITE Optimizer.


When you have one of the problems listed below, it is recommended to try each solution one by one.

If your issue is not listed here, we recommend opening an issue on GitHub.
> Make sure to explain the problem as detailed as possible.
> Explain what you did step by step and include a screenshot of the error.
> When possible attach a debug dump which you can create through the debug tab.
> > https://github.com/MeteorTheLizard/SMITE-Optimizer/issues/

You can also report bugs on our discord server in the #report-a-bug channel.


-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: The SMITE Optimizer tells me the configuration files are located in the "/OneDrive/" path. -Community Contribution

This means that OneDrive took control over the Documents folder of your system, which could potentially break the SMITE Optimizer as well as the game SMITE itself.
If you are able to apply settings and you notice the changes in-game, then you're good and don't need to do anything.


If you don't see any changes, you can try doing the following:

Press Windows key + r
Type in: "regedit"
Navigate to: "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders"
On the right, there should be an entry called "Personal"
If it says something about OneDrive in the value field, double-click the value and change it to "%USERPROFILE%\Documents"
This will reset your documents path back to what it should be.
Launch the game, then close the game. This will make the game generate new configuration files.
Open the SMITE Optimizer, navigate to the debug tab, and reset your configuration paths.
Re-discover them.
The SMITE Optimizer should now function correctly, and changes should be visible in-game.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: The SMITE Optimizer cannot find my configuration files no matter what button I press during the setup phase.

Solution: Make sure SMITE was launched at least once on your system before.
Solution4: Launch the SMITE Optimizer as Admin.
Solution2: Verify the game files through Steam or Epic Game Store.
Solution3: Make sure your antivirus does not interfere with the SMITE Optimizer.
Solution5: Head into the debug tab and reset your configuration paths. When selecting the new paths, click on "More options" and then "Manual Search". Go into your Documents folder (Default: C:\Users\ (USER) \Documents\My Games\SMITE\BattleGame\Config) and select BattleEngine.ini .. Then BattleSystemSettings.ini .. Then BattleGame.ini - If these files do not exist after following the steps above, then you should open an issue on GitHub for further help.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: The SMITE Optimizer crashes when I apply the changes or verify and repair the integrity of the configuration files.

Solution: Disable the automatic repair / verification check in the debug tab. (Uncheck verify/integrity in the debug tab)
Extra: If you encounter this error, please report it on GitHub! > https://github.com/MeteorTheLizard/SMITE-Optimizer/issues/

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: The SMITE Optimizer does not detect my screen resolution!

Solution: Set your main monitor as your primary display device.
Solution2: Make sure your primary display device supports your requested screen resolution.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: The SMITE Optimizer started to crash suddenly when I apply the changes made even though it worked before!

Solution: Your configuration files are corrupt. Restore a backup through the "Restore configuration" tab, or head into the debug tab and follow the path to your configuration files and delete them. Open smite, close it, and then try again. Deleting your configuration files will reset your in-game settings.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: I applied the settings, but now my game is in Fullscreen at a low resolution!
Solution: The SMITE Optimizer does not read existing configuration files on first launch and uses your primary display device resolution when possible. Make sure to set the Window Type and Resolution and apply the changes again.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: I applied the settings a while ago, but some of the settings are gone now!
Solution: The game received an update which partially reset your configuration files. Re-apply the SMITE Optimizer to fix it.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: I'm trying to create a QuickLaunch Bypass, but the SMITE Optimizer cannot find my game.
Solution: Verify the game files through Steam or Epic Game Store.
Solution2: Uninstall the game and install it again (This re-creates the registry entries, which verifying does not do! These are required!)

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: When I start the game, it says "Version Mismatch" in the login screen!
Solution: You're using the QuickLaunch Bypass. You have to manually update the game whenever there was a patch. You do this through Steam or Epic Game Store.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: I changed my settings to be very low overall, but my FPS didn't get better!
Solution: Newer hardware does not benefit from lower settings. It is recommended to bump the settings up higher as that will force your CPU and GPU to work harder, which CAN result in higher FPS. If you have a decent PC I recommend using my settings which can be found on GitHub in the screenshots. (Resolution scale should be 100% !!)

-- ----- ----- ----- -----

Problem: The game crashes for no reason even without using the SMITE Optimizer
Solution: Re-install your graphics drivers as well as all the redistributables for the game. You can find the in the game folder (Steam > \Steam\steamapps\common\SMITE\Binaries\Redist)
Solution2: Re/Install your Chipset drivers for your motherboard.
Solution3: Make sure your hardware and operating system is supported.

-- ----- ----- ----- -----